README.md, before:

# Software Development Surveys

A list of surveys covering various aspects of IT and software development, including programming languages, frameworks, tools, and methodologies, that can provide insights into current trends and future directions in the tech industry and development ecosystem.

## Devographics
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of HTML | [surveys](https://stateofhtml.com/) | |
| State of CSS | [surveys](https://stateofcss.com/) | |
| State of JS | [surveys](https://stateofjs.com/) | |
| State of React | [surveys](https://stateofreact.com/) | |
| State of GraphQL | [surveys](https://stateofgraphql.com/) | |

## Michael Rambeau (Best of JS)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| JavaScript Rising Stars | [surveys](https://risingstars.js.org/) | |

## Stack Overflow
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Stack Overflow Annual Developer Surveys | [surveys](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey) | |

## Octoverse (GitHub)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| The state of the Octoverse | [2023 survey](https://github.blog/2023-11-08-the-state-of-open-source-and-ai/) | |

## JetBrains
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| The State of Developer Ecosystem | [2023 survey](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2023/) | |

## W3Techs
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| World Wide Web Technology Surveys | [surveys](https://w3techs.com/) | |

## Software Mansion
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of React Native | [surveys](https://stateofreactnative.com/) | |

## Solidity Team
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Solidity Developer Survey | [2022 survey](https://soliditylang.org/blog/2023/03/10/solidity-developer-survey-2022-results/) | |

## Golang (Google)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Go Developer Survey | [2023 H2 survey](https://go.dev/blog/survey2023-h2-results) | |

## Pierre Carbonnelle
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| PYPL Index | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html) | |
| 10 TOP IDE | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html) | |
| 10 TOP ODE | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/ODE.html) | |
| 10 TOP DB | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/DB.html) | |

## Basedash
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of Database Survey | [surveys](https://stateofdb.com/) | |

## Flatlogic
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Starting Web App Surveys | [surveys](https://flatlogic.com/blog/?s=%5Bresearch+results%5D) | |

## Timescale
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of PostgreSQL | [surveys](https://www.timescale.com/state-of-postgres/) | |

## Tobias Petry
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of Laravel | [surveys](https://stateoflaravel.com/) | |

## GitLab
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| DevSecOps Report | [surveys](https://about.gitlab.com/developer-survey/) | sign up needed to see the full report |

## Developer Nation (SlashData)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of the Developer Nation Surveys | [surveys](https://developernation.net/resources/reports) | sign up needed to see the full report | |

## SmartBear Software
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| SmartBear Surveys | [surveys](https://smartbear.com/state-of-software-quality/) | sign up needed to see the full report | |

Commit message:

replace single year survey links with google search links

README.md, after:

# Software Development Surveys

A list of surveys covering various aspects of IT and software development, including programming languages, frameworks, tools, and methodologies, that can provide insights into current trends and future directions in the tech industry and development ecosystem.

## Devographics
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of HTML | [surveys](https://stateofhtml.com/) | |
| State of CSS | [surveys](https://stateofcss.com/) | |
| State of JS | [surveys](https://stateofjs.com/) | |
| State of React | [surveys](https://stateofreact.com/) | |
| State of GraphQL | [surveys](https://stateofgraphql.com/) | |

## Michael Rambeau (Best of JS)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| JavaScript Rising Stars | [surveys](https://risingstars.js.org/) | |

## Stack Overflow
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Stack Overflow Annual Developer Surveys | [surveys](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey) | |

## Octoverse (GitHub)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| The state of the Octoverse | [surveys - Google Search](https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fgithub.blog+%22Octoverse+report%22) | |

## JetBrains
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| The State of Developer Ecosystem | [surveys](https://www.jetbrains.com/lp/devecosystem-2023/) | |

## W3Techs
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| World Wide Web Technology Surveys | [surveys](https://w3techs.com/) | |

## Software Mansion
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of React Native | [surveys](https://stateofreactnative.com/) | |

## Solidity Team
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Solidity Developer Survey | [surveys - Google Search](https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fsoliditylang.org%2Fblog+%22Solidity+Developer+Survey%22) | |

## Golang (Google)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Go Developer Survey | [surveys - Google Search](https://www.google.com/search?q=site%3Ahttps%3A%2F%2Fgo.dev%2Fblog+%22Go+Developer+Survey%22) | |

## Pierre Carbonnelle
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| PYPL Index | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/PYPL.html) | |
| 10 TOP IDE | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html) | |
| 10 TOP ODE | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/ODE.html) | |
| 10 TOP DB | [surveys](https://pypl.github.io/DB.html) | |

## Basedash
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of Database Survey | [surveys](https://stateofdb.com/) | |

## Flatlogic
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| Starting Web App Surveys | [surveys](https://flatlogic.com/blog/?s=%5Bresearch+results%5D) | |

## Timescale
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of PostgreSQL | [surveys](https://www.timescale.com/state-of-postgres/) | |

## Tobias Petry
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of Laravel | [surveys](https://stateoflaravel.com/) | |

## GitLab
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| DevSecOps Report | [surveys](https://about.gitlab.com/developer-survey/) | sign up needed to see the full report |

## Developer Nation (SlashData)
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| State of the Developer Nation Surveys | [surveys](https://developernation.net/resources/reports) | sign up needed to see the full report | |

## SmartBear Software
| title / description | url | notes |
|--|--|--|
| SmartBear Surveys | [surveys](https://smartbear.com/state-of-software-quality/) | sign up needed to see the full report | |
